Durable Objects: improve error handling docs (#12608)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/durable-objects/reference/error-handling.md

---
title: Error handling
pcx_content_type: concept
---

# Error handling

> This guide describes how to handle errors (exceptions) generated by both your own Durable Objects code as well as exceptions thrown by Durable Objects itself.

Reviewer: Think some extra clarification here would be nice": `... generated by both your own Durable Object code as well as exceptions thrown by Durable Objects infrastructure (such as overloads or network errors).`

Author: Incorporated, thanks!

> This guide describes how to handle errors (exceptions) generated by both your own Durable Objects code as well as exceptions thrown by Durable Objects itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Review how to handle errors (exceptions) generated by both your own Durable Objects code as well as exceptions thrown by Durable Objects itself.
```

> This guide describes how to handle errors (exceptions) generated by both your own Durable Objects code as well as exceptions thrown by Durable Objects itself.

Author: ```suggestion
This guide describes how to handle errors (exceptions) generated by both your own Durable Object code as well as exceptions thrown by Durable Objects' infrastructure (such as overloads or network errors).
```

## How exceptions are thrown

There are three ways in which a Durable Object can throw an exception:

> 1. From the code within the `fetch` handler defined on your Durable Object class. The resulting exception will have a `.remote` property set to `True` in this case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. From the code within the `fetch()` handler defined on your Durable Object class. The resulting exception will have a `.remote` property set to `True` in this case.
```

2. From code within the `constructor` method defined on your Durable Object class. The resulting exception will have a `.remote` property set to `True` in this case.

> 3. Generated by Durable Object's infrastructure when you are sending too many requests to a single Durable Object or when too many requests are queued due to slow or excessive I/O (external API calls or storage operations) within an individual Durable Object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Generated by Durable Object's infrastructure when you are sending too many requests to a single Durable Object, or when too many requests are queued due to slow or excessive I/O (external API calls or storage operations) within an individual Durable Object.
```

Reviewer 2: Are 1, 2, and 3 ordered by frequency? If ordering doesn't matter, we should use bullet points instead of numbers.

Author: Yes, they are ordered based on likelihood of a user running into them.

> Visit the [troubleshooting documentation](/durable-objects/reference/troubleshooting/) to review the types of errors returned by a Durable Object and/or Durable Objects infrastructure and how to prevent them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Refer to [Troubleshooting](/durable-objects/reference/troubleshooting/) to review the types of errors returned by a Durable Object and/or Durable Objects infrastructure and how to prevent them.
```

## Understanding stubs

> A Durable Object stub is a client Object used to send requests to a remote Durable Object. To learn more about how to make requests to a Durable Object, visit the [documentation on stubs](/durable-objects/how-to/create-durable-object-stubs/) and [accessing Durable Objects from Workers](/durable-objects/how-to/access-durable-object-from-a-worker/) how-to guides.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Durable Object stub is a client Object used to send requests to a remote Durable Object. To learn more about how to make requests to a Durable Object, refer to [Create Durable Objects stubs](/durable-objects/how-to/create-durable-object-stubs/) and [Access a Durable Objects from a Worker](/durable-objects/how-to/access-durable-object-from-a-worker/).
```

## Example

> Any uncaught exceptions thrown by your code within a Durable Object’s `fetch` handler or `constructor` method will be propagated to the caller’s `fetch` call:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any uncaught exceptions thrown by your code within a Durable Object’s `fetch()` handler or `constructor` method will be propagated to the caller’s `fetch()` call:
```

      // thrown by the code in your Durable Object's fetch() handler
      if (e.remote) {
        // The exception was raised from code in your Durable Object's fetch handler
      }

      // If the remote property is not present, then the error is likely to
      // indicate that your Worker could not reach the Durable Object itself,
      // representing a potential transient error (or overload) of your
      // Durable Object. Under most conditions, you should attempt to retry
      // 1-2 times before failing.
      return new Response("server error", { status: 500 });
    }
  },
};

export class ErrorThrowingObject implements DurableObject {
  constructor(state: DurableObjectState, env: Env) {
    // Any exceptions that are raised in your constructor will also set the
    // .remote property to True
    throw "no good";
  }

  async fetch(req: Request) {
    // Generate an uncaught exception
    // A .remote property will be added to the exception propagated to the caller
    // and will be set to True
    throw new Error("example error");

    // We never reach this
    return Response.json({});
  }
}
```

> When the exception is _not_ generated from your own code and instead from Durable Object's infrastructure, the `.remote` property will not be present on the exception propagated to the caller's `fetch` call:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the exception is _not_ generated from your own code and instead from Durable Object's infrastructure, the `.remote` property will not be present on the exception propagated to the caller's `fetch()` call:
```

```ts
try {
  let userId = new URL(req.url).searchParams.get("userId") || "";
  const id = env.ErrorThrowingObject.idFromName(userId);
  const doStub = env.ErrorThrowingObject.get(id);
  const resp = await doStub.fetch("http://your-do/");

  return Response.json(resp);
} catch (e: any) {
  // The .remote property would NOT be populated in this case
  if (e.remote) {

>     // Code here won't be called

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // Code here will not be called
```
